readme.md, before:

# webdav

[![Build](https://img.shields.io/travis/hacdias/webdav.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/hacdias/webdav)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/hacdias/webdav?style=flat-square)](https://goreportcard.com/report/hacdias/webdav)

```webdav``` is a simple tool that creates a WebDAV server for you. By default, it runs on a random free port and supports JSON and YAML configuration. Here is a simple YAML configuration example:

```yaml
scope: /path/to/files
address: 0.0.0.0
port: 8080
tls: false
cert: cert.pem
key: key.pem
users:
  - username: admin
    password: admin
  - username: encrypted
    password: "{bcrypt}$2y$10$zEP6oofmXFeHaeMfBNLnP.DO8m.H.Mwhd24/TOX2MWLxAExXi4qgi"
  - username: "{env}ENV_USERNAME"
    password: "{env}ENV_PASSWORD"
  - username: basic
    password: basic
    modify:   false
    rules:
      - regex: false
        allow: false
        path: /some/file
```

You can specify the path to the configuration file using the `--config` flag. By default, it will search for a `config.{yaml,json}` file on your current working directory.

An example of how to use this with `systemd` is on [webdav.service.example](/webdav.service.example).

Download it [here](https://github.com/hacdias/webdav/releases).

Commit message:

docs: better readme
License: MIT
Signed-off-by: Henrique Dias <hacdias@gmail.com>

readme.md, after:

# webdav

[![Build](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/hacdias/webdav/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://circleci.com/gh/hacdias/webdav)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/hacdias/webdav?style=flat-square)](https://goreportcard.com/report/hacdias/webdav)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/hacdias/webdav.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/hacdias/webdav/releases/latest)

## Install

Please refer to the [Releases page](https://github.com/hacdias/webdav/releases) for more information. There, you can either download the binaries or find the Docker commands to install WebDAV.

## Usage

```webdav``` command line interface is really easy to use so you can easily create a WebDAV server for your own user. By default, it runs on a random free port and supports JSON, YAML and TOML configuration. An example of a YAML configuration with the default configurations:

```yaml
# Server related settings
address: 0.0.0.0
port: 0
auth: true
tls: false
cert: cert.pem
key: key.pem

# Default user settings (will be merged)
scope: .
modify: true
rules: []

users:
  - username: admin
    password: admin
    scope: /a/different/path
  - username: encrypted
    password: "{bcrypt}$2y$10$zEP6oofmXFeHaeMfBNLnP.DO8m.H.Mwhd24/TOX2MWLxAExXi4qgi"
  - username: "{env}ENV_USERNAME"
    password: "{env}ENV_PASSWORD"
  - username: basic
    password: basic
    modify:   false
    rules:
      - regex: false
        allow: false
        path: /some/file
```

There are more ways to customize how you run WebDAV through flags and environment variables. Please run `webdav --help` for more information on that.

### Systemd

An example of how to use this with `systemd` is on [webdav.service.example](/webdav.service.example).

## License

MIT © [Henrique Dias](https://hacdias.com)
